# Longitudinal-and-Lateral-Control-for-Autonomous-Vehicles
Self-driving car (driverless, autonomous, robotic car) is a vehicle that is capable of sensing its environment and navigating without human input. Self-driving cars can detect environments using a variety of techniques such as radar, GPS and computer vision. Advanced control systems interpret sensory information to identify appropriate navigational paths, as well as obstacles and relevant signage. Self-driving cars have control systems that are capable of analyzing sensory data to distinguish between different cars on the road. This is very useful in planning a path to the desired destination. With their sensors and processors, they navigate roads without any of these human failings that can result in accidents. But there is something self-driving cars do not yet deal with very well – the unexpected. Computer algorithms can ensure that self-driving cars obey the rules of the road — making them turn, stop, slow down when a light turns yellow and resume when a light turns to green from red. There are 6 different levels of autonomous. Google wants to design a new prototype of its driverless car. This would be a car that has no steering wheel, no gas or brake pedals and thus is 100% autonomous.

In this project we will develop control code to navigate a self-driving car around a racetrack in the CARLA simulation environment. We will construct longitudinal and lateral dynamic models for a vehicle and create controllers that regulate speed and path tracking performance using Python.
